  Placement Prediction System Using Machine Learning


The general Placement Prediction System considers only academic performances in order to predict whether a student can be placed or not. Judging the student based only on his academic performances would be unfair for the student, since a student could be having good aptitude, technical and communication skills but unfortunately might not be good in academic performances. It would wrong to judge a student based only on his academic performances, since Predicting the placement of a student needs a lot of parameters to be considered. But in order to get selected in campus interview, the student must be good in technical and aptitude 
skills. Of course academic performances are important but don’t hold the highest importance in the outcome of student placement. This project is made focused on all those skills that an individual must possess to get placed.

1.Machine Learning Used:-
Logistic Regression - Logistic regression is a supervised learning classification algorithm used to predict the probability of a target variable. The nature of target or dependent variable is dichotomous, which means there would be only two possible classes. The dependent variable is binary in nature having data coded as either 1 (stands for success/yes) or 0 (stands for failure/no). 
Mathematically, a logistic regression model predicts P(Y=1) as a function of X. It is an appropriate technique that can be used in predictive analysis when the dependent variable is dyadic or binary. Since the categorization of individuals being placed is a double-edged variable, this technique can be used.
2. Random Forest - Random forest is a Supervised Machine Learning Algorithm that is used widely in Classification and Regression problems. It builds decision trees on different samples and takes their majority vote for classification and average in case of regression. One of the most important features of the Random Forest Algorithm is that it can handle the data set containing continuous variables as in the case of regression and categorical variables as in the case of classification.
3. Decision Tree - Decision Tree algorithm belongs to the family of supervised learning algorithms. The goal of using a Decision Tree is to create a training model that can use to predict the class or value of the target variable by learning simple decision rules inferred from prior data (training data). In Decision Trees, for predicting a class label for a record we start from the root of the tree. We compare the values of the root attribute with the record’s attribute. On the basis of comparison, we follow the branch corresponding to that value and jump to the next node. While implementing a Decision tree, the main issue arises that how to select the best attribute for the root node and for sub-nodes. The selection criterion used here is gini impurity as computation using gini impurity is faster in comparison to entropy. 
